Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
Data Structures are required to store data in an efficient manner

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
Creation: Creating a data structure according to the requirement
Insertion: Inserting values into data structure
Traversal: Visiting each element of the data structure at least once
Search: Searching of an element in the given number of elements

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
Compiler Design.
Operating System.
DBMS.
Graphics.
Simulation.
Numerical Analysis.

what is an Array?
Array is a data structure that contains a group of elements.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
An array is a fixed-length data structure.
ArrayList is a variable-length data structure.

what is LinkedList?
A linked list is a linear collection of data elements whose order is not given by their physical placement in memory.

How is an Array different from Linked List?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
A linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts

what is queue?
A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed.

what is stack?
A stack is a conceptual structure consisting of a
set of homogeneous elements and is based on the principle of last in first out (LIFO)

what is FIFO and LIFO?
FIFO: First in first out
LIFO: Last in first out

what is the order of complexity?
an algorithm has an asymptotic computational complexity. Assuming the input is of size N,
we can say that the algorithm will finish at O(N), O(N^2), O(N^3), O(N*log(N)) etc.

what is the best case to search an element from an array?
The best case of the unsorted array is O(n) while the worst case is also O(n).

what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
The worst-case performance is when the search item appears at the end of the list or not at all.

what is tree in data structure?
A tree is a hierarchical data structure defined as a collection of nodes

what is graph in data structure?
A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges

what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
Hashtable is synchronized.
HashMap is non-synchronized.

What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
RDBMS: Array
Network data model: Graph
Hierarchical data model: Trees

How HashMap works in java?
HashMap uses a hashCode of the key Object and this hashCode is further used by
the hash function to find the index of the bucket where the new entry can be added.

What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
An ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException is caused by trying to retrive a "box" that does not exist,
by passing an index that is higher than the index of last "box", or negative.

What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
Manually.
Arrays.copyOf()
System.arraycopy()
Object.clone()
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
An array is a collection of elements of a similar data type.
A linked list is a collection of objects known as a node where node consists of two parts.

What is DFS and BFS?
BFS stands for Breadth First Search.
DFS stands for Depth First Search.

What is Recursion?
Recursion is a widely used phenomenon
in computer science used to solve complex problems by breaking them down into simpler ones.

What are linear and non linear data Structures?
n a linear data structure, data elements are arranged in a linear order where each and every elements are attached to its previous and next adjacent.
In a non-linear data structure, data elements are attached in hierarchically manner.

What is Big-(O)-notation?
Big O notation is a mathematical notation that describes the limiting
behavior of a function when the argument tends towards a particular value.

Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?
Space Complexity, Time Complexity, O(1), O(log n), O(n), O(n2)

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


